[PXCT-1840] - URLs for Cloud-Hosted Library Examples (Update) (#2931)
arduino/docs-content: content/tutorials/communication/SoftwareSerialExample/SoftwareSerialExample.md

![](assets/circuit.png)

Image developed using [Fritzing](https://fritzing.org). For more circuit examples, see the [Fritzing project page](https://fritzing.org/projects/).

## Schematics

![](assets/schematic.png)

Image developed using [Fritzing](https://fritzing.org). For more circuit examples, see the [Fritzing project page](https://fritzing.org/projects/).

## Opening the example in the Arduino IDE

The `SoftwareSerial` library and its example come pre-installed with your board's support package, so you do not need to download anything separately. To open the example sketch:

1. From the menu, select **Tools > Board > Arduino AVR Boards > Arduino Uno** (or another Arduino board such as the Nano or the Mega 2560).
2. Select **File > Examples > SoftwareSerial > SoftwareSerialExample**.

The example sketch will open in a new editor window.

<Alert type="note"><strong>Tip</strong>: If you do not see `SoftwareSerial` listed under **File > Examples**, make sure that an Arduino board is currently selected. The IDE only shows the examples available for the board you have chosen.</Alert>

## Code

> Below is the content of `SoftwareSerialExample.ino` (this example is in the public domain):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the content of the `SoftwareSerialExample` example:
```

I think it makes more sense to refer to examples by the sketch name instead of by the filename, as is done by the Arduino IDE menus. In the case where a sketch contains multiple files, it would be important to also specify the name of the file being referred to, but in the case of a single file sketch like this, that is not necessary.

---

Remove the public domain statement. The licensing of the code is already specified by a comment in the sketch:

https://github.com/arduino/docs-content/blob/8cd9e97bedc0e8d093485e51b101f6c91556849a/content/tutorials/communication/SoftwareSerialExample/SoftwareSerialExample.md?plain=1#L71

so making the same statement in the prose content is redundant.

  modified 25 May 2012
  by Tom Igoe
  based on Mikal Hart's example

  This example code is in the public domain.
*/

#include <SoftwareSerial.h>

SoftwareSerial mySerial(10, 11); // RX, TX

void setup() {
  // Open serial communications and wait for port to open:
  Serial.begin(57600);
  while (!Serial) {
    ; // wait for serial port to connect. Needed for native USB port only
  }

  Serial.println("Goodnight moon!");

  // set the data rate for the SoftwareSerial port
  mySerial.begin(4800);
  mySerial.println("Hello, world?");
}

void loop() { // run over and over
  if (mySerial.available()) {
    Serial.write(mySerial.read());
  }
  if (Serial.available()) {
    mySerial.write(Serial.read());
  }
}
```

## Things to keep in mind

- **Only one software serial port can listen at a time**: If you create more than one `SoftwareSerial` object in the same sketch, only one of them can receive data at a time. You can switch between them using `mySerial.listen()`.
- **Speed**: `SoftwareSerial` works reliably up to about 115200 bps, but the higher the speed the more work the CPU has to do. Whenever possible, use the hardware serial port for fast or critical communications.

> - **Newer Arduino boards**: Boards such as the UNO R4, Nano ESP32, MKR family, GIGA R1, Portenta, and Nano 33 BLE already include extra hardware serial ports (`Serial1`, `Serial2`, …). On those boards it is better to use the hardware ports directly instead of `SoftwareSerial`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Boards such as the Mega 2560, UNO R4, Nano ESP32, MKR family, GIGA R1, Portenta, and Nano 33 BLE already include extra hardware serial ports (`Serial1`, `Serial2`, …). On those boards it is better to use the hardware ports directly instead of `SoftwareSerial`.
```

Remove "Newer Arduino boards" qualifier. It is misleading to imply that this is specific to newer boards. I don't think many readers would consider the adjective "newer" to apply to the Mega 2560, Leonardo, Micro, Due, Zero, or even MKR boards, yet these all have hardware serial pins that are free for use by the user.

---

Add Mega 2560. Since the Arduino AVR Boards platform was selected as the focus of the tutorial, I think it is worth mentioning one board from that platform in the list of examples.
